Formal Languages
So let's talk about Formal Languages.
Oops, hold on a second.
'Oops' is actually said earlier than its subtitle
but it fits better where it is
When you read instructions in a human language,
you can generally understand what's written
even if there are small errors.
But for a computer, the instructions are so precise that
even one small error can prevent it from working.
It's not that they're stupid,
[uhh] they are a bit stupid.
Anyway, even in day to day use
we have situations
where something absolutely has
to be formatted correctly.
You're not going to get what you want if you don't
follow the rules when entering email addresses,
ERROR invalid email
shortened 'ERROR email address invalid format' to 'ERROR invalid email'
typing in numbers,
ERROR invalid amount
or entering formulas into spreadsheets.
#ERROR!
What we need is a way to write down rules
for what is acceptable and what isn't.
This is what Formal Languages can do for us.
Let's get back to the backend.
Formal Languages are even involved in...
Formal Languages are even involved in
delivering this video to you.
They're used to specify the format of the
address of the page that this video is in;
the structure of the page itself;
the file format that this video is stored in;
the software that is running this video;
and even the hardware on your computer that is
running the software to render this video.
Computer Scientists use Formal Languages
to explore all sorts of issues,
even including the limits of what can
ever be done with computers.
Here's a fun fact:
we can describe any computer or
digital device using a Formal Language.
In fact, Formal Languages even show us
the very limits of what can be computed.
And we can prove that there really are
mathematical problems
that can never be solved by a computer.
Woah, mind blown.
Boom
But, I'm getting ahead of myself, Formal Languages are
basically a bunch of reasonably simple ideas
that have unreasonably strange names.
Regular Expressions
Finite State Automata
Context Free Grammars
These techniques are used all the time
in Computer Science,
and are worth getting to know.
Formal Languages